# Setting up VirtualBox

Soon there will be scripts to do most of this work, but for now perform the following.

## Downloading and configuring VirtualBox
Download VirtualBox from https://www.virtualbox.org/ and install as directed for your operating system.

## Downloading CentOS
Download one of the minimal releases of CentOS. Below are list of possible mirrors you could download the versions from:

* 32-bit: http://isoredirect.centos.org/centos/6/isos/i386/
* 64-bit: http://isoredirect.centos.org/centos/6/isos/x86_64/

Alternatively, just go to http://www.centos.org/ and download your preferred version. At this time we have only tested on CentOS 6.5 and 6.6.

### 32 vs 64 bit versions
Note that some computers have issues hosting 64-bit virtual machines, even if the host computer has a 64-bit architecture. In order to host the OS you may be required to update your BIOS to enable VT-x/AMD-V. If you cannot do this, use 32-bit. Download the appropriate i386 version instead of the x86_64 version of CentOS, configure VirtualBox accordingly, and select 32-bit during Meza1 setup below.

## Configure VirtualBox Networking
Prior to starting to setup your virtual machine, you must first setup VirtualBox networking to properly handle connections between the host (your actual computer) and the client (the virtual computer you will setup).

Follow these steps to properly configure your "host-only" networking. See this [VirtualBox discussion] for more info.

1. Launch VirtualBox
1. Go to VirtualBox --> Preferences in the menu bar. A window entitled "Virtual Box - General" will appear.
1. Click the "Network" icon in the "Virtual Box - General" window
1. Click "Host-only Networks"
  * There should be one network called "vboxnet0" (if you have multiple host-only networks make sure you edit the correct one; this manual does not cover that situation at this time, however)
  * Click the wrench icon to the left (third icon, on the bottom)
1. Set IPv4 address to "192.168.56.1". Leave other values untouched (should be IPv4 Network Mask = "255.255.255.0", IPv6 Address blank, IPv6 Network Mask Length = 0)
1. Click okay to save your changes

## Setting up the VirtualBox Machine
Setup your machine, following [this tutorial](https://extr3metech.wordpress.com/2012/10/25/centos-6-3-installation-in-virtual-box-with-screenshots/). Basic steps are below.

1. Click "New"
1. Name your machine
1. Select type="Linux"
1. Select version="Red Hat" or version="Red Hat (64 bit)"
1. Click next, then set your RAM amount. Set to 1024 at minimum, but don't use too much for your machine.
1. Select "Create a virtual hard drive now" and choose "VDI"
1. Choose "Dynamically allocated"
1. Select how large a hard disk you want. 10 GB is enough for a basic test setup.
1. Go to the "settings" for your VM, and go to the "storage" section.
  1. Click the "Controller: IDE" > "Empty" line, and then in the "attributes" section click the CD icon next to the CD/DVD drive dropdown
  1. Click the "Choose a virtual CD/DVD disk file" then select the CentOS .iso file you downloaded earlier
  1. While still in "settings" perform the next section below

## Configure networking
You will configure two network adapters: NAT and Host-only. Later you will have to configure your network from within your virtual machine. When you do this, NAT will correspond to "eth0" and Host-only will correspond to eth1. 

NAT is what will allow your VM to communicate with the outside internet. It will do so using your host computer's IP address. If instead you were to use a "bridged" network adapter your VM would receive its own IP address and would appear as an independent machine to the outside world.

The Host-only connection is for network operations between the host and client machines. This allows you to SSH from your computer to your VM.

1. With your VM off, open its settings and go to "Network"
1. Set "Adapter 1" to "NAT"
1. In "Adapter 2" click "Enable Network Adapter"
1. Change "Attached to" to "Host-only Adapter"
  * Choose the host-only adapter you edited earlier

## Installing CentOS
1. Start your virtual machine. Select the drive you mounted the disk image to.
1. When the "Welcome to CentOS" banner comes up, select "Install or upgrade an existing system"
1. Wait for about 1 minute.
1. Skip testing the media (there is no media, you're not using a CD)
1. Follow the on-screen install wizard. Many things are self-explanatory. Here are some suggestions:
	1. Use "Basic Storage Devices"
	1. The storage device may contain data, but who cares: it's a new virtual machine. Select "Yes, discard any data".
	1. For the hostname, pick whatever you named your VM
	1. For installation, "Use All Space"
	1. Write changes to disk
1. Once installation begins it'll take about five minutes.
1. Reboot your virtual machine when prompted.
1. Confirm you can login with your root username/password
1. Shutdown your machine using 
```bash
shutdown -h now
```

## Take a snapshot

Congratulations! You've successfully installed your virtual machine. Now take a snapshot so you can save the initial, untouched state. To do that, click the "snapshots" icon in the top-right of VirtualBox. Then click the camera icon to take the snapshot. Name it something like "initial". Throughout this manual we'll recommend taking snapshots at various times. It's on you to give them good, descriptive names

## Setup SSH

Start your VM, then run the following commands. Unfortunately you have to type them all manually, since your VM doesn't support copy/paste from the host at this point. Type carefully.

```bash
ifup eth0
yum -y install wget
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/enterprisemediawiki/Meza1/master/setup.sh
bash setup.sh
```

These commands do the following:

**ifup eth0** turns on the NAT network adapter, allowing your virtual machine to connect to the internet. Provided you setup your VM as described in [initial setup](manual/1.0-SettingUpVirtualBox.md) this should complete successfully in a couple seconds.

**yum -y install wget** uses the CentOS package manager, yum, to install wget. wget allows your VM to retrieve files from networked resources. In this case we're going to use wget to retrieve a script file from the EnterpriseMediaWiki GitHub repository. This requires about a minute to run.

**wget https...** retrieves the setup script file.

**bash setup.sh** executes the setup script. If you are not logged in as root, you will need to run this with sudo. This requires about a minute or two to run. (Note that this should prompt you for the desired IP address. If you were to instead pipe this into bash in the same command as the previous wget command, you would not be prompted for the desired IP address. So we run this as a standalone command.)

Once you have run these commands your SSH should work. The IP address of your VM is one of the last lines of output of the wget command. Login from your host machine's terminal (or Putty if you're on Windows). Once you've confirmed you can use SSH it is recommended that you don't use the VM's user interface any longer. Just SSH. When you boot the VM in the future, hold shift while clicking "start" to boot without creating a user interface window.

Once you've logged in with SSH, move on to the LAMP setup scripts. But first **shutdown and take a snapshot**.

## Optional: create non-root user

As root, run:

```
adduser USERNAME
passwd USERNAME
```

You'll be prompted to add a password. Once entered, run:

```
visudo
```

Below this line:

```
root    ALL=(ALL)       ALL
```

Add the line:

```
USERNAME     ALL=(ALL)       ALL
```

## References
[VirtualBox discussion]: https://forums.virtualbox.org/viewtopic.php?f=8&t=34396
