manual/3.1-InstallApache.md, before:

# Install Apache 2.4 from source

We want to install the latest version of Apache, 2.4.x, versus using the 2.2.x available via yum for CentOS 6.

References:
* http://blog.astaz3l.com/2015/02/09/how-to-install-apache-on-centos/

## Install dependencies and setup source directory
```
yum -y install wget gcc pcre-devel openssl-devel
cd ~
mkdir sources
cd sources
```

## Download source files
Download Apache httpd, Apache Portable Runtime (APR) and APR-util. Note that these links may break when new versions are released. See [httpd](http://ftp.piotrkosoft.net/pub/mirrors/ftp.apache.org//httpd/) and [APR](http://ftp.ps.pl/pub/apache//apr/) list of files to confirm versions before running.

```
wget http://ftp.piotrkosoft.net/pub/mirrors/ftp.apache.org//httpd/httpd-2.4.12.tar.gz
wget http://ftp.ps.pl/pub/apache//apr/apr-1.5.2.tar.gz
wget http://ftp.ps.pl/pub/apache//apr/apr-util-1.5.4.tar.gz
```

## Unpack and build from source
```
tar -zxvf httpd-2.4.12.tar.gz
tar -zxvf apr-1.5.2.tar.gz
tar -zxvf apr-util-1.5.4.tar.gz
cp -r apr-1.5.2 httpd-2.4.12/srclib/apr
cp -r apr-util-1.5.4 httpd-2.4.12/srclib/apr-util
cd httpd-2.4.12
./configure --enable-ssl --enable-so --with-included-apr --with-mpm=event
make
make install
```

## Apache user

```
groupadd www
useradd -G www -r apache
chown -R apache:www /usr/local/apache2
```

## Setup document root

```
mkdir /var/www
mkdir /var/www/meza1
mkdir /var/www/meza1/htdocs
mkdir /var/www/meza1/logs
chown -R apache:www /var/www
chmod -R 775 /var/www
```

##

Skip section (not titled) on httpd.conf "Supplemental configuration"
Skip section titled "httpd-mpm.conf"
Skip section titled "Vhosts for apache 2.4.12"

@TODO: figure out if this section is necessary
For now skip section titled "httpd-security.conf"


## Setup httpd service script
This will allow you to run "service httpd start" and will be called each time the VM is started

@ref contents of script taken from: http://voidweb.com/2010/10/linux-apache-httpd-startup-init-d-script/

```
cd /etc/init.d
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jamesmontalvo3/Meza1/buildapache/client_files/initd_httpd2.sh -O httpd
chmod +x /etc/init.d/httpd
service httpd status
service httpd restart
```

## Create logrotate file

As Apache serves pages it adds events and errors to logs. Over time these logs fill up. This makes sure the logs are rotated so overly large files don't slow down the webserver.

```
cd /etc/logrotate.d
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jamesmontalvo3/Meza1/buildapache/client_files/logrotated_httpd -O httpd
```

If you want to test logrotate, perform the following. However, I think at this point this may not work without at least some items in the logs. Not sure, though.

```
logrotate --force /etc/logrotate.d/httpd

Commit message:

add apache conf updates; fix initd_httpd.sh link

manual/3.1-InstallApache.md, after:

# Install Apache 2.4 from source

We want to install the latest version of Apache, 2.4.x, versus using the 2.2.x available via yum for CentOS 6.

References:
* http://blog.astaz3l.com/2015/02/09/how-to-install-apache-on-centos/

## Install dependencies and setup source directory
```
yum -y install wget gcc pcre-devel openssl-devel
cd ~
mkdir sources
cd sources
```

## Download source files
Download Apache httpd, Apache Portable Runtime (APR) and APR-util. Note that these links may break when new versions are released. See [httpd](http://ftp.piotrkosoft.net/pub/mirrors/ftp.apache.org//httpd/) and [APR](http://ftp.ps.pl/pub/apache//apr/) list of files to confirm versions before running.

```
wget http://ftp.piotrkosoft.net/pub/mirrors/ftp.apache.org//httpd/httpd-2.4.12.tar.gz
wget http://ftp.ps.pl/pub/apache//apr/apr-1.5.2.tar.gz
wget http://ftp.ps.pl/pub/apache//apr/apr-util-1.5.4.tar.gz
```

## Unpack and build from source
```
tar -zxvf httpd-2.4.12.tar.gz
tar -zxvf apr-1.5.2.tar.gz
tar -zxvf apr-util-1.5.4.tar.gz
cp -r apr-1.5.2 httpd-2.4.12/srclib/apr
cp -r apr-util-1.5.4 httpd-2.4.12/srclib/apr-util
cd httpd-2.4.12
./configure --enable-ssl --enable-so --with-included-apr --with-mpm=event
make
make install
```

## Apache user

```
groupadd www
useradd -G www -r apache
chown -R apache:www /usr/local/apache2
```

## Setup document root

```
mkdir /var/www
mkdir /var/www/meza1
mkdir /var/www/meza1/htdocs
mkdir /var/www/meza1/logs
chown -R apache:www /var/www
chmod -R 775 /var/www
```

##

Skip section (not titled) on httpd.conf "Supplemental configuration"
Skip section titled "httpd-mpm.conf"
Skip section titled "Vhosts for apache 2.4.12"

@TODO: figure out if this section is necessary
For now skip section titled "httpd-security.conf"

## Modify config file
The default Apache config file needs to be modified in order to point to the correct htdocs directory.

```
cd /usr/local/apache2/conf
vi httpd.conf
```

Find "DocumentRoot" (`/DocumentRoot` in vi; `cntl-W Document Root` in nano)

Replace `/usr/local/apache2/htdocs` with `/var/www/meza1/htdocs` (twice: There are two lines next to each other with this)

```
service httpd restart
```


## Setup httpd service script
This will allow you to run "service httpd start" and will be called each time the VM is started

@ref contents of script taken from: http://voidweb.com/2010/10/linux-apache-httpd-startup-init-d-script/

```
cd /etc/init.d
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jamesmontalvo3/Meza1/buildapache/client_files/initd_httpd.sh -O httpd
chmod +x /etc/init.d/httpd
service httpd status
service httpd restart
```

## Create logrotate file

As Apache serves pages it adds events and errors to logs. Over time these logs fill up. This makes sure the logs are rotated so overly large files don't slow down the webserver.

```
cd /etc/logrotate.d
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jamesmontalvo3/Meza1/buildapache/client_files/logrotated_httpd -O httpd
```

If you want to test logrotate, perform the following. However, I think at this point this may not work without at least some items in the logs. Not sure, though.

```
logrotate --force /etc/logrotate.d/httpd
